# Design Compiler Topographical (DCTopo) Setup
Here we provide scripts to run DCTopo. DCTopo requires milkyway (mw) library (contains physical information of the standard cells and macros). Also, DCTopo uses *.db file. So we provide the following scripts to run DCTopo:
1. [gen_lib.sh](./gen_db.sh): This script runs the library compiler to generate a .db file from a .lib file. This uses the [gen_lib.tcl](./gen_db.tcl) file. You have to provide the .lib path, library name and the output .db directory path.
2. [gen_mwlib_from_lef.sh](./gen_mwlib_from_lef.sh): This script generates milkyway library from the *.lef file. Milkyway libraries provide physical information of standard cells and macros in the DCTopo flow. It uses [gen_mwlib_from_lef.tcl](./gen_mwlib_from_lef.tcl) script, which reads the technology .lef file and the standard cell / macro .lef and writes out the milkyway library of the corresponding standard cell / macro. Also, this scripts writes out the *.tf file, which is equivalent to tech .lef file.
3. [run_dc_topo.sh](./run_dc_topo.sh): This script runs DCTopo. It uses [run_dc.tcl](./run_dc.tcl), which requires *.db ([gen_lib.sh](./gen_lib.sh) provides detailed steps to generate *.db from *.lib), mw library ([gen_mwlib_from_lef.sh](./gen_mwlib_from_lef.sh) provides detailed steps to generate mw libraries from *.lef), *.tf ([gen_mwlib_from_lef.sh](./gen_mwlib_from_lef.sh) provides detailed steps to generate *.tf from *.lef),  *.def (floorplan def file contains only pin locations), *.sdc (timing constraints file) and Verilog files.